---
layout: post
title: Project 1 - Benson
---
Analyzing MTA Subway turnstile data

# Project #1 (Benson)

### Introduction
In groups of four, we were given the task of brainstorming an idea for improvement that we could visualize and present using NYC Metro turnstile data. The example given was finding advertising hotspots based on ridership numbers at certain stations. Our group came up with the idea of finding the off-peak hours so that we could implement a lower ticket price during these hours. This would hopefully reduce peak hour congestion and alleviate some of the secondary issues that accompany this problem.


### Analysis
The first issue with the data was that the number of turnstile entries and exits was cumulative, showing a number well into the millions. We only want the number of entries for each particular time period. The way to solve this was to use the `.diff()` method to find the difference between subsequent values. 

The majority of data was divided into every 4 hours starting from midnight, though this was not always the case. To standardize the data, we decided to bin all the examples into 4 hour sections. 
Also some tickets machines could be broken or have duplicate in which cases we filter examples where the "DESC" column was"REGULAR"

We also wanted to give a projection of how the subway traffic could be if they implemented our dynamic pricing model. Ideally we would use data from another subway which implmented dynamic pricing (such as D.C. Metro) to make a good estimate of demand increase. Given that this was just an introductory project with less than a week of time to complete, we were allowed to create synthetic data.

### Conclusion
This challenge was a great introduction to data munging and showing us how real world data looks like (terrible). It was a grrat primer into several popular data science modules like pandas and matplotlib/seaborn. 


[Link to the code](https://github.com/K-Du/K-Du.github.io/blob/master/code/1-Benson.py)
